# Setting up your computer to do research

## Goals

This is an interactive session to make sure that everyone at least has their computer set up to do a few basic things.  

We expect that many of you have already done this.  In that case you can help others to get set up.

## Resources and links

[Sid's overview on setting up your computer for scientific computing](https://sidneymau.com/setup.html) - This overview covers similar information to what is contained in this bootcamp repository's materials (linked below), but is organized differently with slightly fewer technical details. This page would be a good starting point, and people can refer to the links below for more technical details if needed. 

[Welcome page](../../README.md)

[macOS setup page](../macos_setup.md)

[Windows setup page](../windows_setup.md)

[Linux setup page](../linux_setup.md)

[Chrome OS setup page](../chrome_os_setup.md)

## Stuff to do ahead of time

- Install Slack (if you don't have it already) and join the channels that your group will be using.  You might also want to join

  - [Students and mentors Slack Channel](https://KIPAC.slack.com/messages/summer-students-plus-mentors)

  - [Students only Slack Channel](https://KIPAC.slack.com/messages/summer-students)

- Follow [Sid's overview](https://sidneymau.com/setup.html), or the Windows, Mac, or Chrome setup and install these three things on your personal computer:

   - conda (Either anaconda or miniconda) including python and jupyter 

   - terminal or terminal emulator program

   - graphics handler such as XQuartz or Cygwin
   
- Download or clone this project repository to your personal computer

    - Click on the "Clone or download" button on this page [https://github.com/KIPAC/BootCamp]  
    
    - If you are familiar with git you can clone the repository, otherwise select "Download zip".  You will want to unpack the zip file into a place you can find it again easily.

If you run into problems setting up any of these things, don't worry.  We've set aside some time today to work with people to get set up.

## Activities and demos

### Working locally on your machine

- Unix basics: using the terminal
  -  Basic unix commands and environment, work the notebook `BootCamp/Unix/Unix (1).ipynb` (You may need to include backslash escape characters in the name to open it from the command line: `BootCamp/Unix/Unix\ \(1\).ipynb`) [Here's a link to that notebook's page on this repository.](../../Unix/Unix%20(1).ipynb)
  -  (Bonus material) Setting up your unix startup scripts, in `BootCamp/Unix/Unix (2).ipynb`  see [Here's the link to the repository page](../../Unix/Unix%20(2).ipynb)
- Running a jupyter notebook locally on your computer, running python in a terminal and writing a python script.  Work through Section 1 of the `BootCamp/Python/Python Intro for summer students.ipynb` notebook on Jupyter & basic python. ([Link to page.](../../Python/Python%20Intro%20for%20summer%20students.ipynb))

### Working on remote servers
What or how much of this you'll need will be somewhat specific to your research group. It's good to know that you can do these things, but for specific instructions and/or getting an account on whatever system is relevant for you, you should talk to your summer mentor. 

- Running a jupyter notebook on an existing remote server 
  - In this case the SLAC [jupyter hub](https://jupyter.slac.stanford.edu/)
- Running a terminal window and connecting to a remote computer
  - In a terminal window you can connect to the SLAC machines with the following command (if you have an account)
  
      ssh -YK USERNAME@centos7.slac.stanford.edu

- Starting a jupyter server remotely and connecting to it using the instructions [here](../jupyter_tunnel.md)




