# Python Basics

Many or most  of you have at least some experience with python, and some of you have quite a bit of of exprience. Throughout this bootcamp and this summer, an important thing to keep in mind is that you are eachother's best resource!

If you want to know how to do something, or why something isn't working, and you are stuck after a bit of trying, then ask your fellow students. Conversely, even if you are quite proficient at something, you can still really improve your understand by teaching it to others.  And it is always good to pratice explaining things clearly, that is really a core skill for scientists.


### Goals

This is mainly some demonstrations of some basic python code and functions, and some tools to get you started working with python.

### Resources and links

There are a great many resources out there to start learning python.  Some of them are simple and clear, some are quite techinical.   I 
just recommend you do a web search and find one that works for you.

There are a lot of resources online for learning python, some of which are more simple and some more technical. The [Python.org website](https://docs.python.org/3.8/) has useful info, as well as [a nice list for beginners](https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide/NonProgrammers). This [Google tutorial](https://developers.google.com/edu/python/) is also a good resource. Here's a website for a [text book on computational physics by Mark Newman](http://www-personal.umich.edu/~mejn/computational-physics/) which is targeted at beginning programmers and has free downloadable chapters and example code. 

### Stuff to do ahead of time

- Make sure that you can run jupyter notebooks on your computer.  
- Make sure that you can start a terminal and run python from it.
- Download or clone this project repository to your personal computer [See instructions from previous day for more info.](https://github.com/KIPAC/BootCamp/blob/master/docs/summer-2021/062321_Setup.md) 

**Warning:** As of Monday we're actively working on updating and refining these tutorial notebooks, and so if you downloaded this workspace earlier in the week, you may need to update it. If you downloaded it using a `git clone` command, you can get updates by navigating to the Bootcamp workspace and typing `git pull`. If you downloaded it a zip file, you'll just have to do that again. 

## Schedule

- 10:00-10:10 am (15 min) - Introductions and overview of first set of topics (basic python, types, flow control, functions)
- 10:10-10:40 (25 min) - Breakout rooms to work on Sections 2-5 of the `BootCamp/Python/Python Intro for summer students.ipynb` notebook. ([Link to notebook page on repository.](../../Python/Python%20Intro%20for%20summer%20students.ipynb))
- 10:40-10:50 (10 min) - Break. Get up and stretch!
- 10:50-11:00 (10 min) - Overview of second set of topics (numpy, matplotlib, pandas)
- 11:00-11:30 (30 min) - Breakout rooms to work on [Scientific Python whirlwind tour Notebook](../../Python/Python%20(3).ipynb) (note that we may be updating that notebook)

During breakout room times, students are encouraged to talk through what they are thinking about on, and help each other out. Remember, people are arriving with a wide variety of computing backgrounds and the goal of these sessions is mainly just to introduce some ideas, not to work through everything as quickly as possible. During that time instructors will pop in and out of breakout rooms to help and answer questions as needed. Students can also use the #summer-students-plus-mentors slack channel to ping instructors and e.g. ask for one to join your breakout room. 

### Other resoures in this repository
The notebooks we'll use for this bootcamp are condensed versions of other tutorials in this repository which were designed for a longer bootcamp, and which therefore delve into more technical details. These other notebooks are available in the [Python folder of this repository.](https://github.com/KIPAC/BootCamp/tree/master/Python). Fair warning though: some of these notebooks are set up to work with Python 2.7, so may require adjustements to run with Python 3.  


